# Perovskites-synthesis-prediction

Synthesis prediction of double perovskites based on the hot injection method.

Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel approach to optimize the synthesis of double perovskite materials using machine learning and a multi-output regression. Machine learning has emerged as a transformative tool in materials science, offering new avenues for optimizing the synthesis of perovskite materials. Among perovskite materials, double perovskites are attractive candidates to replace heavy metals in simple perovskites, while preserving their electronic and structural properties. However, the perovskite structure is complex and poses difficulties for synthesis. Furthermore, we also must deal with challenges such as tuning the synthesis parameters to obtain fine control of nanoparticle size. This is important because the size of the nanoparticles strongly affects the properties of the materials. To overcome these challenges, we combined machine learning and a multi-output approach, which can generate multiple outcomes simultaneously in the same regression, considering the interactions among all targets in a complex reaction. Therefore, we built a specific dataset with relevant parameters for the synthesis of double perovskite. We created the database based on the hot injection method, considering lead-free double and single perovskites. After that, we developed three different multi-output machine learning models based on decision trees, random forest, and neural networks. The models were trained to simultaneously predict optimal synthesis conditions for double perovskites, including reagent amounts, time of reaction and bandgap. We selected the best model based on MAE, RMSE, and R² metrics and used it to predict the synthesis condition of a double perovskite. We then synthesized the Cs2AgInCl6 perovskite following the prediction of the best model and validated it with experimental results. Our approach enables us to achieve accurate predictions and gain a deeper understanding of the intricate relationships between synthesis parameters and material properties.
